
h2. exetel_sms:  Send and receive messages via Exetel's SMS API

bc. gem install 'exetel_sms'
 

h3. Send a message:

bc. require 'exetel_sms'
 config = ExetelSms::Config.new('username', 'password')
 sender = ExetelSms::Sender.new(config)
 result = sender.send(
   'destination mobile number',
   'message',
   'from string',
   sender.class.new_reference_number('application_identifier')
 )
 if result.success?
   puts "Message sent successfully!"
 else
   puts "Error sending message: #{result[:notes]}"
 end



h3. Was it really sent?

bc. retriever = ExetelSms::Retriever.new(config)
 result = retriever.check_sent('reference_number')
 result[:message_status]
 #=> 'Sent' / 'Delivered' / 'Queued' / 'Failed'


h3. Receiving messages from a Virtual Mobile Number

bc. receiver = ExetelSms::Receiver.new(config)
 if result = receiver.receive('my virtual mobile number')
   puts "Received from #{result[:from_mobile_number]}: #{result[:message]}"
 end

Then you can delete the messages with ExetelSms::Deleter

h3. Credit Check: also useful as a ping before sending

bc. checker = ExetelSms::CreditCheck.new(config)
 if result = checker.get_credit_limit
   puts "Credit limit is #{result[:limit]}"
 end


h3. Test API: test responses without making actual HTTP calls

bc. good = ExetelSms::Client.with_test_api { retriever.check_sent('1') }
 good[:message_status] # => 'Delivered'

bc. bad = ExetelSms::Client.with_test_api(:fail) { retriever.check_sent('1') }
 bad[:message_status] # => 'Failed'


See test/ for more examples


h3. Contact the author

Andrew Snow <andrew@modulus.org>
Andys^ on irc.freenode.net
@andy_snow on Twitter



